# Information Architecture

Dr. Stephann Makri

@stephannMakri


## Navigation

Navigation in digital environments are things like navigation bars, hyperlinks, buttons etc

More than just a way for people to get around a site.

* See context of information
* Find related information
* Find information they did not know about

More than a nav bar at the top of the page.

* An entire system that combines different elements for different needs.

```
Your navigation system should cater for different users and different needs
```


## Navigation, organisation and search

## Navigation, organisation and user research

* Your personas focus on who your users are and their information needs
* Your organisation scheme (and sitemap) focuses on your content
* Navigation is where you fit these pieces together to support important:
  * User needs
  * Business goals
  * Information tasks that fulfil user needs and meet business goals

## Principles of navigation design

## Principles of navigation design: Ask yourself...

## Navigation design: An IA’s job?

* Navigation design falls in a grey area between:
  * IA
  * Interaction Design
  * Usability Engineering
  * Information Design
  * Visual Design
* “In the real world, the boundaries are fuzzy and the lines get crossed every day.” (Morville & Rosenfeld, p. 117)

__Based on Morville & Rosenfeld (2006).__

## Navigation systems and elements
* Embedded (global, local, contextual) and supplemental (Morville & Rosenfeld, 2006)
* Structural (global, local), associative and utility (Wodtke& Govella, 2009)
* Navigation mechanisms (Kalbach, 2007)
* ‘Core’ and ‘extra’ navigation elements (Spencer, 2010)
  * Mechanisms are essentially the same as elements

## Embedded and supplemental navigation (Morville & Rosenfeld, 2006)

Supplemental systems exist outside the site’s pages and content

    ```
    i.e. Sitemaps.
    ```

## Embedded navigation

## Embedded navigation

## From global to local: Pogosticking

## From global to local: Crabwalking

## Contextual/associative navigation

## Safety nets

```markdown
* Keep people on your site by finding relevant content for them.
* Can distract you from your end goal.
```

## Supplemental navigation

## Structural, associative and utility navigation

Another way of categorising your navigation.

## Critiquing elements of navigation

* What are the benefits and drawbacks of that form of navigation?
* In which situations might it be most useful to incorporate that form of navigation in your design?
* What are important issues to consider when thinking about designing that form of navigation?

## (Often) global navigation elements


## Horizontal Navigation Bars

## Tabbed navigation bars

## Vertical Navigation

Use indentation to present multiple levels of the hierachary – problomatic if you have too many levels.

## Inverted L Navigation

## Drop Down & Flyout

## Giant Dropdown Menu

Think about people without a mouse and people with out sight.

## Breadcrumbs

## Designing Breadcrumb Trails

## Local navigation elements

## Page body navigation

Navigation in the page body, i.e. related products.

## Link-rich homepages

Pages with lots of links to other content

## Pagination

Sucks so bad

## Contextual links

Links contextual to the page that you are on.

## Related links

Links to related information.

* Display content that users really need, but didn't know they need.

## Supplimental navigation elements

* Things like sitemaps (Table of contents of the site).
* A-Z Indexes
* Big footers

# Site maps

Useful if you want to waste your time seeing if there are other pages you might be interested in (but not know that you're interedted in) ;-)

## Big Footers

## Tag Clouds

Useful for trending topics, helping users find popular subjects.

## Filters

Show me only stuff that I tell you is important.

## Faceted browse (Filters)

Users follow their own path, not the designers.

Can never get zero results.
