# Lecture 5/6? Interaction Design

With George


## Conceptual Design

High level design work.

## Scenarios

* Should use personas
* Used to build Story Boards

A scenario is syntehsised from common themes in user-reported data (about tasks) – amongst other methods.

More often used than HTA.


In the conceptual design stage they should not specify what tools solve the problem. They should capture the user needs and goals.

People often the mistake of moving to detailed design based on these scenarios.

Remember Statistics vs Stereotypes. More art students than computer science students means it is statisticly more likely that a art student will play computer games, despite the stereotype.

*Be Abstract*

  ```
  Bad Scenario:

  Jenny enters her flight number to get its gate

  Good Scenario:

  Jenny identifies her flight (e.g. flight no., destination)


Certain slips may be more prone to certain personas.


## Story Boards

* Lead directly on from scenarios.
* May include some elementts of detailed design if (and only if) required.
* Emphasises the order of actions (wthout formal notation)
* Can capture physical elements of interaction

Useful to capture physical elements because things can vary: Lighting, Space requirements, Mobility, Language. Might be carrying other things, pushing things, looking after others.

People tend to capture demographics, like age and gender. In the concept of a book shop, are these relevant? If someone is a 20 year old, or 50 year old trainspotter; is demographic really going to affect where they look for the book in the book store?

*Demographic is often not relevant*, determine why it will be relevant.


### A storyboard contains:

* A sequence of boards each repreesenting a step in the user's task,
* Each board is a picture of what is happening,
* Annotation is used to explain the content of the board,
* ... missing from slide ...

### Tart up storyboards with:

* Photographs of real locations,
* Illustrations of inspiration for particular features (to help influence future detailed design).

### Tips:

* Start with indicidual parts of ideas, rather than the whole story.
* Note the reference to inspiration on the idea


### Evaluation:

Story boards need t be evaluated againadt:

* Organised requirements – are they met?,
* Completeness & Consistencyof system behaviour,
* Viability,
* Acceptability with users, stakholders, law, safety

### Interviews:

Storyboards can be used in interviews with potential ens users as probes to:

* verify the main design decisions (e.g. does the flow )... See slides


### Detailing Design



### Combining Methods

* A storyboard might follow particular paths in a HTA model,
* A HTA could be built from a storyboard.
